Normalize CredentialsContainer.get() (#35255)
mdn/content: files/en-us/glossary/authenticator/index.md

---
title: Authenticator
slug: Glossary/Authenticator
page-type: glossary-definition
---

{{GlossarySidebar}}

> An **authenticator** is an entity that is inside or attached to the user's device, and that can perform the cryptographic operations needed to register and authenticate users, and securely store the cryptographic keys used in these operations.

Reviewer: This sentence is a bit of a mouthful, and should ideally be chopped up. We might remove how it is attached/integrated in the first sentence because this is covered in the second. Also answer the question "can this be software based"? That may be why you used the term "entity"?

Anyway, something like

```suggestion
An **authenticator** is a device that that can perform the cryptographic operations needed to register and authenticate users, and securely store the cryptographic keys used in these operations.
```

Author: > Also answer the question "can this be software based"? That may be why you used the term "entity"?

Yes and yes. I agree about "attached to or inside" being covered well enough in paragraph 2, and I don't like "entity" very much either. But, I don't think we can use "device" here unless we also change "device" in paragraph 2. I think it is worth being clear about the hardware/software thing though.

Will make a suggestion.

> An **authenticator** is an entity that is inside or attached to the user's device, and that can perform the cryptographic operations needed to register and authenticate users, and securely store the cryptographic keys used in these operations.

Author: Does this 2-part suggestion seem OK? (sorry can't work out how to make it one suggestion):

```suggestion
An **authenticator** is an entity that can perform the cryptographic operations needed to register and authenticate users, and securely store the cryptographic keys used in these operations.
```

Reviewer: Yes, this fix work well. I'll merge. I have no other comments.

> An authenticator might be integrated into the device, like the [Touch ID](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Touch_ID) system in Apple devices or the [Windows Hello](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Windows_10#System_security) system, or it might be a removable module like a [Yubikey](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/YubiKey).

Author: ```suggestion
An authenticator might be implemented in hardware or software. If may be integrated into the device, like the [Touch ID](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Touch_ID) system in Apple devices or the [Windows Hello](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Windows_10#System_security) system, or it might be a removable module like a [Yubikey](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/YubiKey).
```
